1. “	You’ve killed me. Bastards, you’ve killed me! While the sun is still hot, I die!	”
–Collected on the fifth day of the week Chach of the month Betab of the year 1171, ten seconds 
before death. Subject was a darkeyed soldier thirty-one years of age. Sample is considered 
questionable.

2. “	Ten orders. We were loved, once. Why have you forsaken us, Almighty! Shard of my soul, 
where have you gone?	” –Collected on the second day of Kakash, year 1171, five seconds before 
death. Subject was a lighteyed woman in her third decade.

3. “	A man stood on a cliffside and watched his homeland fall into dust. The waters surged 
beneath, so far beneath. And he heard a child crying. They were his own tears.	”

4. “	I’m dying, aren’t I? Healer, why do you take my blood? Who is that beside you, with his 
head of lines? I can see a distant sun, dark and cold, shining in a black sky.	” –Collected on 
the 3rd of Jesnan, 1172, 11 seconds pre-death. Subject was a Reshi chull trainer. Sample is of 
particular note.

5. “	I have seen the end, and have heard it named. The Night of Sorrows, the True Desolation. 
The Everstorm.	” –Collected on the 1st of Nanes, 1172, 15 seconds pre-death. Subject was a 
darkeyed youth of unknown origin.

6. “	I’m cold. Mother, I’m cold. Mother? Why can I still hear the rain? Will it stop?	”
–Collected on Vevishes, 1172, 32 seconds pre-death. Subject was a lighteyed female child, 
approximately six years old.

7. “	They are aflame. They burn. They bring the darkness when they come, and so all you can see 
is that their skin is aflame. Burn, burn, burn ... .	” –Collected on Palahishev, 1172, 21 
seconds pre-death. Subject was a baker’s apprentice.

8. “	Victory! We stand atop the mount! We scatter them before us! Their homes become our dens, 
their lands are now our farms! And they shall burn, as we once did, in a place that is hollow 
and forlorn.	”–Collected on Ishashan, 1172, 18 seconds pre-death. Subject was a lighteyed 
spinster of the eighth Dahn.

9. “	Ten people, with Shardblades alight, standing before a wall of black and white and red.	”
–Collected on Jesachev, 1173, 12 seconds pre-death. Subject: one of our own ardents, overheard 
during his last moments.

// 10. 

11. “	Three of sixteen ruled, but now the Broken One reigns.	”
–Collected: Chachanan, 1173, 84 seconds pre-death. Subject: a cutpurse with the wasting sickness, 
of partial Iriali descent.

// I1. 

// I2. 

// I3. 

12. “	Old friend, I hope this missive finds you well. Though, as you are now essentially 
immortal, I would guess that wellness on your part is something of a given.	”

13. “	I realize that you are probably still angry. That is pleasant to know. Much as your 
perpetual health, I have come to rely upon your dissatisfaction with me. It is one of the 
cosmere’s great constants, I should think.

14. “	Let me first assure you that the element is quite safe. I have found a good home for it. I 
protect its safety like I protect my own skin, you might say.	”

15. “	You do not agree with my quest. I understand that, so much as it is possible to understand 
someone with whom I disagree so completely.	”

// 16. 

17. “	Might I be quite frank? Before, you asked why I was so concerned. It is for the following 
reason:	”

18. “	Ati was once a kind and generous man, and you saw what became of him. Rayse, on the other 
hand, was among the most loathsome, crafty, and dangerous individuals I had ever met.	”

19. “	He holds the most frightening and terrible of all of the Shards. Ponder on that for a time, 
you old reptile, and tell me if your insistence on nonintervention holds firm. Because I assure 
you, Rayse will not be similarly inhibited.	”

// 20. 

21. “	One need only look at the aftermath of his brief visit to Sel to see proof of what I say.	”

22. “	In case you have turned a blind eye to that disaster, know that Aona and Skai are both dead, 
and that which they held has been Splintered. Presumably to prevent 
anyone from rising up to challenge Rayse.	”

23. “	You have accused me of arrogance in my quest. You have accused me of perpetuating my grudge 
against Rayse and Bavadin. Both accusations are true.	”

24. “	Neither point makes the things I have written to you here untrue.	”

// 25. 

26. “	I am being chased. Your friends of the Seventeenth Shard, I suspect. I believe they’re still 
lost, following a false trail I left for them. They’ll be happier that way. I doubt they have any 
inkling what to do with me should they actually catch me.	”

27. “	If anything I have said makes a glimmer of sense to you, I trust that you’ll call them off. 
Or maybe you could astound me and ask them to do something productive for once.	”

28. “	For I have never been dedicated to a more important purpose, and the very pillars of the sky 
will shake with the results of our war here. I ask again. Support me. Do not stand aside and let 
disaster consume more lives. I've never begged you for something before, old friend.
I do so now. ”

// I4.

// I5.

// I6.

29. “	The ones of ash and fire, who killed like a swarm, relentless before the Heralds.	”

30. “	They were suddenly dangerous. Like a calm day that became a tempest.	”
–This fragment is the origin of a Thaylen proverb that was eventually reworked into a more common 
derivation. I believe it may reference the Voidbringers. See Ixsix’s Emperor, fourth chapter.

// 31. 

32. “	They lived high atop a place no man could reach, but all could visit. The tower city itself, 
crafted by the hands of no man. - Though The Song of the Last Summer is a fanciful tale of romance 
from the third century after the Recreance, it is likely a valid reference in this case. See page 
27 of Varala's translation, and note the undertext.	”

33. “	They changed, even as we fought them. Like shadows they were, that can transform as the flame 
dances. Never underestimate them because of what you first see. -Purports to be a scrap collected 
from Talatin, a Radiant of the Order of Stonewards. The source - Guvlow's Incarnate - is generally 
held as reliable, though this is from a copied fragment of "The Poem of the Seventh Morning," which 
has been lost.	”

34. “	I walked from Abamabar to Urithiru.	”
–This quote from the Eighth Parable of The Way of Kings seems to contradict Varala and Sinbian, who 
both claim the city was inaccessible by foot. Perhaps there was a way constructed, or perhaps 
Nohadon was being metaphorical.

35. “	Though many wished Urithiru to be built in Alethela, it was obvious that could not be. And so 
we asked for it to be placed westward, in the place nearest to Honor.	”

36. “	Taking the Dawnshard, known to blind any creature voidish or mortal, he crawled up the steps 
crafted for Heralds, ten strides tall apiece, toward the grand temple above.	”

// 37. 

38. “	Born from the darkness, they bear its taint still, marked upon their bodies much as the 
fire marks their souls.	” –I consider Gashash-son-Navamm is a trustworthy source, though I'm not 
certain about this translation. Find the original quote in the fourteenth book of Seld and 
retranslate it myself, perhaps?

39. “	Within a heartbeat, Alwzarv was there, crossing a distance more than four months to travel by 
foot.	”

40. “	Death upon the lips. Sound upon the air. Char upon the skin.	”

// 41. 

42. “	Like a highstorm, regular in their coming, yet always unexpected.	”

43. “	They lived out in the wilds, always awaiting the Desolation - or sometimes, a foolish child who 
took no heed of the night's darkness.	”

// 44. 

45. “	Yelig-nar, called Blightwind, was one that could speak like a man, though often his voice was 
accompanied by the wails of those he consumed.	”

46. “	Though I was due for dinner in Veden City that night, I insisted on visiting Kholinar to speak 
with Tivbet. The tariffs through Urithiru were growing unreasonable. By then, the so-called Radiants 
had already begun to show their true nature.	”–Following the firing of the original Palanaeum only 
one page of Terxim's autobiography remained, and this is the only line of any use to me.

// 47. 

48. “	They take away the light, wherever they lurk. Skin that is burned.	”

49. “	Radiant / of birthplace / the announcer comes / to come announce / the birthplace of the 
Radiants.	”

50. “	Flame and char. Skin so terrible. Eyes like pits of blackness.	”

// 51. 

// I7. 

// I8. 

// I9. 

52. “	I'm standing over the body of a brother. I'm weeping. Is that his blood or mine? What have we 
done?	”

53. “	He must pick it up, the fallen title! The tower, the crown, and the spear!	”

54. “	The burdens of nine becomes mine. Why must I carry the madness of them all? Oh, Almighty, 
release me.	”

55. “	A woman sits and scratches out her own eyes. Daughter of kings and winds, the vandal.	”

56. “	Light grows so distant. The storm never stops. I am broken, and all around me have died. I weep 
for the end of all things. He has won. Oh, he has beaten us.	”

57. “	I hold the suckling child in my hands, a knife at his throat, and know that all who live wish me 
to let the blade slip. Spill its blood upon the ground, over my hands, and with it gain us further 
breath to draw.	”

58. “	Re-Shephir, the Midnight Mother, giving birth to abominations with her essence so dark, so 
terrible, so consuming. She is here! She watches me die!	”

59. “	Above the final void I hang, friends behind, friends before. The feast I must drink clings to 
their faces, and the words I must speak spark in my mind. The old oaths will be spoken anew.	”

60. “	The death is my life, the strength becomes my weakness, the journey has ended.	”

61. “	In the storm I awaken, falling, spinning, grieving.	”

62. “	The darkness becomes a palace. Let it rule! Let it rule!	”

63. “	I wish to sleep. I know now why you do what you do, and I hate you for it. I will not speak of 
the truths I see.	”

64. “	They come from the pit, two dead men, a heart in their hands, and I know that I have seen true 
glory.	”

65. “	I see them. They are rocks. They are the vengeful spirits. Eyes of red.	”

66. “	That chanting, that singing, those rasping voices.	”

67. “	Let me no longer hurt! Let me no longer weep! Dai-gonarthis! The Black Fisher holds my sorrow 
and consumes it!	”

68. “	They named it the Final Desolation, but they lied. Our gods lied. Oh, how they lied. The Everstorm 
comes. I hear its whispers, see its stormwall, know its heart.	”

69. “	All is withdrawn for me. I stand against the one who saved my life. I protect the one who killed 
my promises. I raise my hand. The storm responds.	”

// 70.

// 71.

// 72.

// 73.

// 74.

// 75.

// Epilogue.